docs/units/conversion.rst, before:

Low-Level Unit Conversion
*************************

Conversion of quantities from one unit to another is handled using the
`Quantity.to() <astropy.units.quantity.Quantity.to>` method. This page
describes some low-level features for handling unit conversion that
are rarely required in user code.

Direct Conversion
=================

.. EXAMPLE START: Direct Conversions Between Units

In this case, given a source and destination unit, the values in the
new units are returned.

  >>> from astropy import units as u
  >>> u.pc.to(u.m, 3.26)
  1.0059308915661856e+17

This converts 3.26 parsecs to meters.

Arrays are permitted as arguments.

  >>> u.h.to(u.s, [1, 2, 5, 10.1])
  array([  3600.,   7200.,  18000.,  36360.])

.. EXAMPLE END

Incompatible Conversions
========================

.. EXAMPLE START: Conversions Between Incompatible Units

If you attempt to convert to a incompatible unit, a
:class:`~astropy.units.UnitConversionError` will result:

  >>> cms = u.cm / u.s
  >>> cms.to(u.km)  # doctest: +IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
  UnitConversionError: 'cm / s' (speed) and 'km' (length) are not convertible

You can check whether a particular conversion is possible using the
:meth:`~astropy.units.core.UnitBase.is_equivalent` method::

  >>> u.m.is_equivalent(u.pc)
  True
  >>> u.m.is_equivalent("second")
  False
  >>> (u.m ** 3).is_equivalent(u.l)
  True

.. EXAMPLE END

Commit message:

ENH: Move _get_converter to public API

docs/units/conversion.rst, after:

Low-Level Unit Conversion
*************************

Conversion of quantities from one unit to another is handled using the
`Quantity.to() <astropy.units.quantity.Quantity.to>` method. This page
describes some low-level features for handling unit conversion that
are rarely required in user code.

Direct Conversion
=================

.. EXAMPLE START: Direct Conversions Between Units

In this case, given a source and destination unit, the values in the
new units are returned.

  >>> from astropy import units as u
  >>> u.pc.to(u.m, 3.26)
  1.0059308915661856e+17

This converts 3.26 parsecs to meters.

Arrays are permitted as arguments.

  >>> u.h.to(u.s, [1, 2, 5, 10.1])
  array([  3600.,   7200.,  18000.,  36360.])

.. EXAMPLE END

Obtaining a Conversion Function
-------------------------------

.. EXAMPLE START: Obtaining a Conversion Function

Finally, one may obtain a function that can be used to convert to the
new unit. Normally this may seem like overkill when all one needs to
do is multiply by a scale factor, but there are cases when the
transformation between units may not be as simple as a single scale
factor, for example when a custom equivalency table is in use.

Conversion to different units involves obtaining a conversion function
and then applying it to the value, or values to be converted.

  >>> cms = u.cm / u.s
  >>> cms_to_kmph = cms.get_converter(u.km / u.hour)
  >>> cms_to_kmph(125.)
  4.5
  >>> cms_to_kmph([1000, 2000])
  array([36., 72.])

.. EXAMPLE END


Incompatible Conversions
========================

.. EXAMPLE START: Conversions Between Incompatible Units

If you attempt to convert to a incompatible unit, a
:class:`~astropy.units.UnitConversionError` will result:

  >>> cms = u.cm / u.s
  >>> cms.to(u.km)  # doctest: +IGNORE_EXCEPTION_DETAIL
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
  UnitConversionError: 'cm / s' (speed) and 'km' (length) are not convertible

You can check whether a particular conversion is possible using the
:meth:`~astropy.units.core.UnitBase.is_equivalent` method::

  >>> u.m.is_equivalent(u.pc)
  True
  >>> u.m.is_equivalent("second")
  False
  >>> (u.m ** 3).is_equivalent(u.l)
  True

.. EXAMPLE END
